thirty years of FBI work that was the
highlight of my life what makes a good
FBI undercover agent you got to remember
you're convincing real bad guys that
you're worse than they are
you can infiltrate almost any group in
the world but do you trust the FBI
organization the recent events over the
last couple of years it's embarrassing
to the FBI we shouldn't be in the news
if you tell me that Apple has the
computer of somebody who's threatened to
blow up Grand Central Station the FBI
should get in there somehow
it's the preservation of human life we
would be here for weeks if we were going
back and forth
how much similarity does the FBI as an
organization have to the mob I'm
coaching baseball at night and I'm
robbing banks during the day why do they
ever trust a new guy because they're all
greedy every one of those cases were
made because they were greeted to make
money how are you staying calm in that
moment rather than wait for the day
somebody sticks a gun to your head stop
thinking about it now
[Music]
today's guest is Michael McGowan who was
a 35 year law enforcement involved in
law enforcement 30 of that which was FBI
and within the FBI you got out of all
the FBI agents out there only 10% ever
go undercover of the 10% only a quarter
do more than one case 10% of 10% do more
than five cases he did 50 cases one of
them was Russia undercover Russian mafia
another one was the LA cosa nostra three
different families undercover for I
think six years and the last one was the
Sinaloa cartel without Chapo and there's
a lot of different stories and his
recent book ghost got picked up by
Sylvester Stallone and he's turning it
into a movie with that being said
Michael thank you for flying out and
being a guest with us thank you for
having me yes and sakes Alan because you
just retired two years ago so a lot of
your stories are gonna be a good time
we're gonna have some stories that are
recent some that are older this is a
good mixture it is so when did you wake
up and say I'm gonna go be an FBI agent
what was that like I never did so the
way that came around was I grew up in a
police family my father my grandfather
were police officers my son is now a
police officer I didn't think I had a
choice that was the family business we
were Blue Bloods before there was a Blue
Bloods so I knew I was going into police
work but I expected to be a police
officer and that's what I became right
out of college I became a police officer
and while I was a police officer we were
responding to bank robberies in which
the FBI also had jurisdiction and one
day one of the FBI agent asked me if I
considered joining the FBI you know
literally was the first time across my
mind and I told him not really I was
very happy being a police officer and
the next time I saw him he handed
sheet with the application and the he
also slipped a second piece in which had
the salary which was more than twice
what I was making as a police officer
and I had just had a baby we were just
starting our family so I figured I'd
give it a shot
never expecting to be hired so there was
no lifelong ambition to become an agent
it just kind of happened and I'm glad it
did what did your dad think you didn't
did you not tell him right off the bat
or family that I'm going was it a
secrecy secrecy thing no my father had
passed early he was a police officer for
almost 30 years he died six months after
retirement you were 19 right as is it
were you 19 when he passed or I was 19
years old 19 years that's right you were
19 so so when you were 19 when he passed
he was a retired cop you become an FBI
agent later on in life family do they
know yet that you're an FBI agent my
family knew I was an FBI agent obviously
both my own family and then my my
extended family but they didn't know I
worked undercover I didn't I didn't
think that was a good idea I tell the
story that when I was a cop I came home
from the midnight shift we had just been
married I was from a police family so I
understood police work my wife wasn't so
I got jumped in a bar and came home with
the two black eyes and a separated
shoulder and my wife yelled at me for
parent League in my butt kicked at work
but it really frightened her and we made
a deal very early in a marriage that
what I did it work stayed at work so
once I transitioned into undercover work
I didn't want to bother my wife and my
kids about what I did so they knew I was
an FBI agent but not what I did at work
so were you gone regularly kind of like
hey you know how Pistone was gone for a
long time was was that also with yes you
were gone I was gone especially when my
kids were young and again you talk about
the book that I wrote I wrote the book
not for general consumption I wrote it
to thank my wife and to explain to my
children what I had been doing it was
really remoted that was the motive I
never intended this to be published or
being out in the open I wanted to thank
my wife she raised and took care of our
family I have three productive healthy
wonderful children it's all
my wife taking care of them when I was
out playing cops and robbers Wow and my
kids they didn't understand they don't
when they're little they don't know
you're an FBI agent
they just know you're doing weird things
I tell the story that my son was home
sick from school he was little seven or
eight years old I was working a night I
came home went to bed he didn't know I
was home I didn't know he was home the
doorbell rang I picked out the window
and I went downstairs and my son's at
the top of the stairs I don't know he's
there and I answered the door with a gun
behind my back and my son who was seven
or eight at the time never told us he
told that story years later at
Christmastime and I wanted to explain to
them because it see me in the basement
with a recorder just odd things that
kids don't normally see their parents
doing or they don't understand and then
I'd I'd leave for months weeks there was
one case I was gone two and a half years
permanently you'd go 20 1/2 years they
don't see you at all but bouncing back
and forth about once every two months or
so during that time my kid he was in the
fifth grade he got in a fight in school
because another kid teased them his
parents were divorced his father was
gone so he decided to handle it on the
playground it's just a crazy lifestyle
so I wanted my wife and my kids to
understand because they made the same
sacrifices that I was making what was
their reaction when they read the book I
know I heard they read in less than a
week or less than a day some story like
that what is it what happened was when I
first wrote it for them I didn't realize
when you write a book you don't have to
write the whole book so I wrote 357
pages and I gave it to my children and
my wife at a Christmas I put it under
the tree one year I think it was two
thousand fourteen or fifteen my wife and
my daughter went upstairs that day and
came down the following day having read
the whole story and not knowing a lot of
it so they they were first exposed to it
and then it explained a lot my kids all
say to me now oh now I get it now I got
it
so were they crying were they well they
were it was actually it was actually
emotional because and again for my wife
she didn't know the situations that I
was involved in which I didn't want her
to
no she didn't join the FBI she wasn't
responsible for what I did but you know
to get up in the middle of the night and
then leave and not come home for four or
five days just the just the family life
of an undercover agent is is difficult
and again at the end of my career I
always had an interest in writing I
wanted to try to write something I
wanted to do that all my life and so
that's how I figured I would try it by
explaining to them the people most
important me what what I was doing would
you recommend the life to other people
or now yes you would I would as an FBI
agent as an FBI agent I would because
number one it's very fulfilling people
say to me well you know you wrote a book
and a movie blah blah blah thirty years
of FBI work was the ultimate that's all
I want to remember that was the that was
the highlight of my life and the rush
you get the adrenaline rush the
satisfaction of basically because you
got to remember you're an FBI agent
you're convincing real bad guys that
you're as bad is worse than they are
that's not easy so it's a it's a
challenge I always like to have
challenges in front of me so I was
terrible when I first started undercover
work there was no training I didn't know
what I was doing but I knew I wanted to
do it and it's a skill that you can
improve upon if you work hard at it and
I'd like to think that I worked hard at
it but I always wanted the next one and
that's why retiring was so hard there
was there wasn't a next one retiring was
hard very hard Wow of course I mean if
you're doing it 30-plus years it's just
that side of it you're so what makes a
good FBI undercover agent in my opinion
there's a couple of things that make
some agents perform better than others
one is you have to be humble you have to
be confident without being cocky you
have to be a good listener people miss
that when a bad guys talking to you
young undercover agents start thinking
of their next answer and they don't
listen and if you don't listen carefully
to what they're saying they're the ones
who are providing the evidence not you
the more you're talking the less
evidence they're giving you so I trained
new undercover agents and I actually
have
list of good traits and bad traits and
the the good traits are basically common
sense good judgment not getting too high
getting too low and you have to be
comfortable you have to be comfortable
in the environment a lot of people don't
want to go into undercover work because
they're fearful of not being able to
adapt to the group setting that they're
in
I felt differently you know if you
continue to work at this scale you can
you can infiltrate literally almost any
group in the world got it how different
is FBI from your experience versus a CIA
agent or is it pretty close on who would
who would do well again I don't know
enough about the CIA I just know that
state federal when you when you meet
state federal and local law enforcement
officers who also work undercover I can
kind of pick them out of a crowd there's
a certain it's hard to describe but
there's a certain mindset there's a
certain skillset that you kind of get
used to when you see people you know a
lot of times when you're saying this is
their part of it that's also acting as
well like you know I don't like to use
the word acting as I said you don't get
take two and undercover work if you make
a mistake literally you can lose your
life and you can jeopardize an
investigation was there every time would
that happen to you or now absolutely
what situation was it we were
investigating a suspected serial killer
that we had had contact with an
undercover capacity and one of the
agents asked dialed a phone and the bad
guy heard us talking about our approach
to him oh my so we jeopardized and again
you know you do that and you call you
your friend and people laugh about it or
we call it a serial killer and and again
not proud of that it happens but that's
how important what we're doing is so you
make one mistake like that we had
already convinced him that we were bad
guys but then we made a mistake in the
case was closed obviously
he actually called the FBI and said
don't bother coming back he called the
FBI and said don't bother calling back
coming back coming back yeah and then
what happened to him later on he's still
on the street he's still on the street
and what year was this was it 20 years
ago I mean no this was probably maybe 10
years ago 10 years ago nice still on the
streets mm-hmm he's behind you in the
grocery store Wow very impressive no not
impressive because that's a mistake that
what I'm saying with him is the fact
that he's still in the streets is
impressive for him tonight still not be
caught that's what I'm saying by being
very impressive on is it so so okay so
let's go through some of the stories
let's go through some of the stories Joe
Pistone are you guys friends where you
just know of each other
Joe and I are I would call us
acquaintances that Joe was just one
generation before me so I believe Joe
retired a year before I joined so that's
there was no overlap in our careers he
was just getting out as I was coming in
but everybody in the undercover
community obviously know Joe's work in
New York and he's been kind enough to
help me along in my career but again we
don't socialize we don't spend time with
one another but any good undercover
agent will always try to help another
undercover agent I don't care what kind
of bad you wear if you have the cones to
go out on the street and do this I'll
help you oh it doesn't matter what it is
you guys work together and you
understand each other absolutely that's
great to know have you ever been the
same room with Joe yes I told Joe at the
end of the interview I don't know if you
remember that I said Joe I feel like you
still feel like you're with the mob and
he says no I said you talk like a
mobster you won't take those glasses off
you dress like a mobster what do you
think when you say see Joe yeah you seen
somebody that was so deep into their
life for six years that some of it is
stuck no that's a good question because
when I watched that interview Joe's
answer was the exact answer I'd get you
he never once confused his identity he's
an FBI agent as I was an FBI agent our
job is to collect intelligence and
evidence
we may look dressed talk act and
manipulate them like they do but we're
not one of them
and people ask me all the time don't you
feel bad when you get next to a guy and
he goes to jail and no I don't because
he put himself in jail at all
No zero zero other people may feel
differently yeah I'm just telling you my
experience I like these guys I mean the
mob guys that I hung out of them were
the funniest guys in the world but they
kill each other they kill each other
regularly if they kill each other yeah
that's a crime yeah and they do other
things that you know they want they want
the lifestyle that comes from easy
living and then they don't want to pay
the penalties when they're caught so
that's their decision I never forced
anybody into committing a crime that's
what they chose to do are you friends
with anybody from that life that turned
their lives around that got ahold you
and you guys are now have a relationship
or not at all one of my best friends he
just passed away a couple years ago
there's a it's one of the cases I work
in the Merlino Philadelphia crime family
there was a informant named Ron Privett
II he's publicly been acknowledged etc
he skilled me not an FBI agent informant
a bad guy turned informant taught me the
ways of the mob and I spent years
working with him and learning from him
and I had a super relationship with him
up until his death a couple years ago so
you so he's the lefty to you he's the
guy that was kind of giving excited he
wasn't an informant had left it wasn't a
normal but he was preventing was an
informant but he had been he had been in
the military he had been a Philadelphia
police officer and any switched sides
and he became a captain in the in the
relay no family and then he decided to
get out before we got him and he came on
board with us and he taught me literally
almost everything about them um some of
the things what are some of the things
he taught you about the mob well there's
a perfect example I showed up one time
he was talking about the way I dress he
showed I showed up one time and I had on
a very nice suit and he looked at me and
he said
you're an FBI agent they said what are
you talking about I said it's a $1,500
suit he said yeah but you got on $8 Sox
you gonna JCPenney socks on so you're
cheap sore you're an agent you're not a
mobster so who would think that what
type of socks you wore that's that's a
good example of what he taught me
it's just it's little things like that
that made me get better at what I did
listening to him people think of
informants and I know there's different
opinions of that but they've lived that
life they know that life why wouldn't we
take that help very interesting that
he's paying attention to everything
people are wearing $8 JCPenney socks
with $1500 suits some of the cases you
were undercover in one in cases that
seems that's pretty interesting to me is
the the the largest heroin you know you
guys seize I think it was four hundred
million dollars if I'm right with the
numbers if not the second largest at the
time it's the one article says first
biggest another one says second so it's
obviously one of the biggest one ever
how was that going through that process
of experience than that okay in that
case the the first heroin case you're
talking about was in Philadelphia and I
was the case agent I was not the
undercover agent because these guys were
in Karachi Pakistan and we convinced
them to send 50 kilos of heroin into the
US and we seized it so I would help
develop the storyline they thought they
were talking to another inmate somebody
in the prison system that there was a
relationship with so that case when we
seized the 50 kilograms of heroin in
1992 that was iron at a hundred eighty
million and we didn't pay a dime for
that heroin it was all fronted to us
given to us in advance believing that we
would sell it and repay them which we
obviously didn't and then that left that
led to the second heroin case after the
debacle with the heroin gone missing
there's a second heroin case where we
were able to use the original defendant
as an informant to make a second seizure
which was another 200 million so
combined there a total of 400 million
between the two so this was a time when
you were an agent for seven years and
they accused you of taking 180 million
dollars after the first seizure yeah
that 50 kilograms
that I was a golden boy in the FBI that
means you can do no wrong so I was a
golden boy in a year and a half later
the FBI turned around and accused me of
stealing it out of the evidence Locker
when they did what happened to you were
you still working day today or no what I
was working at the time and I was told
that I couldn't discuss it with anyone
including my family that I was to keep
my mouth shut while the investigation
took place so my own agency thought I
was guilty of a horrendous crime how
long did that investigation last about
four months four months and in after
four months do you because I know in
that world it's you know you get a scar
the golden boy is gone and then
everybody's kind of like what if you
know what if he is doing something like
I tell people all the time I went from
Golden Boy to public enemy number one my
reputation my integrity was destroyed
falsely I know who supported me and who
didn't the people who didn't to this day
I won't speak to him I was on a SWAT
team and on a drug drug squad at the
time and the agents on the drug squad
and the SWAT team who I worked with on a
daily basis supported me a hundred
percent while the rest of the office
waited for the see which way the wind
was blowing it was horrific the FBI you
don't make a lot of money everything is
your reputation and your integrity and
to have that falsely tarnished and never
be given it I was later given an
exponent I a apology by director free
nobody who accused me in the first place
ever apologized I mean that's pretty
well because in that in the world if
you're an FBI did this stripes and the
respect you have is the fact that you
know I'm all in you can trust me you
know when I'm doing that when you take
that away from you what is my currency
and I got it did you kind of feel like
you have to keep constantly earning back
their currency from the well people ask
me about a lot of people ask me why he
didn't quit well I didn't quit because
number one I didn't do anything wrong
and number two I had a family to raise
and all I know is police work so I
wasn't quitting and then my father had
taught me at a very young age you get
knocked down you get up and that's what
I did I said to the FBI all right if you
think I'm somebody of that character
I'll show you and that's when I went and
started making those cases and bringing
in results but to this day you can tell
five years later I'm still pissed off to
be falsely acute and that's why I gave
every bad guy I never put anybody in
jail that I didn't know 110% because I
was falsely accused of something so you
have to make sure your evidence is
locked locked in tight did they finally
find the money or no did they finally
find a heroin well they found some of it
most of it was sold and they arrested
another FBI agent who set it up in a way
that the finger would be pointed at me
so somebody did end up doing the time
for 25 years 25 years yes and they know
what this is a amongst all your peers
everybody knew that it was him that did
it they knew after yeah but during the
time and after after his what after but
there were still people after who still
thought I may have been involved yeah
and those are the people that you don't
want to talk to for 25 years I mean
that's pretty obvious you got a lot of
pride behind what you're doing so
there's a funny story about the one
where somebody who was an insider taking
trying to sign a six million dollar deal
to help the Mafia make money and you
found out about an inspector what what
happened there that was another mob case
that case took place around 2006 2008
the head of the Boston organized crime
stream at that time was a guy named
Carmen DiNunzio and he was known as the
cheese man because he operated a cheese
shop in the north end which is the
Italian section of Boston mr. Patriarca
was the patriarch of family or something
like that now that's the earlier one so
this is the New England LCN this is the
Boston based mob at the time so we had
decimated them throughout the
prosecution so he was kind of the next
in line but he wasn't a brain surgeon so
he had he had friends who owned a dirt
farm and they had toxic loom at the dirt
firm that couldn't be used anywhere and
DiNunzio came up with the brilliant idea
that he would sell it to the state of
Massachusetts to be used in the
construction of the Big Dig it's a big
construction project up there so we got
windham at the FBI heard about it and i
was asked to
go undercover in that case and pose as a
corrupt Massachusetts state official so
I had to go to dirt school I didn't know
there was such a thing where you have to
go learn about dirt there's a lot of
things to know about dirt but again
getting back to that's what we have to
do when we do these things if you're
going to say you're a dirt inspector and
you're gonna go to a dirt farm
you better know to be able to you can
talk about dirt so I did my schooling
the state at the state of Massachusetts
was tremendous giving us an education
and resources and I went out and posed
as a corrupt state official how was that
now is this the time when you pull up
with the car and they do what you do
with the car because that's pretty crazy
I'm just I'd visualize and I'm thinking
to myself that's insanity no but what
that is and if you looked at it I used
the Cesar Millan school of training if I
used to love to watch see some along the
dog whisperer he would control dogs
without them understanding he was
controlling them and I took some of the
techniques and I would practice on human
beings and they're very effective and so
when I pulled up that day they're
expecting some state inspector and so I
borrowed a state truck a huge lime-green
truck I had all the gear onto hard hat
the boots I drove into the dirt farm and
about 100 miles an hour and I just rode
around spinning I ignored them for like
ten minutes I got out of their truck I
went to the bathroom against the tire I
didn't wash my hands and I went over and
shook their hands and called him by the
wrong name and the point being there
that they think this is some not but at
least they don't think it's an FBI agent
and that was my I've made such a strong
approach to them I didn't want them to
think that I possibly could be there
collecting evidence and they bought it
how long was that how long was that
undercover a timeline on that one that
case was quick that was maybe six months
or less because it was it was going down
the road when they asked me to once they
had that opportunity and I jumped in
quickly because I had previous
experience with the LCN but the office
had been trying to make a case for about
two years
and we made that we made the case from
the undercover technique in about ten
meetings so what's what's a short case
what's a long case I know you said 25
years one time being away from the
family well what would be considered a
short case a short case can literally be
one day a good example and that we talk
about a little bit as these
murder-for-hire come up when these
robberies come up we get information
that somebody wants to hire somebody to
kill somebody we have to get in quickly
we have to try to interrupt that so you
may do that I did one or you or you have
bank robberies guys want to rob banks
and you need somebody to infiltrate the
bank robbers before they do it
you know we're watching them we're
hoping that they don't strike but if we
have the ability to get next to them we
want to do that I did one bank robbery
case where they wanted me to be the
getaway driver and I had a secure weapon
and in the car and of the day of the
robbery I drove the two robbers up to
the bank while the SWAT team was waiting
and I let him out and I drove away how
did they hire you though how did they
find out about you again I don't want to
give too much to the other side but
believe me informants are critical to
law enforcement and I'll leave it at
that got it but then you got to you got
to sell yourself you may get introduced
but then they got to believe you're
willing to you're a bank robber so this
is what I mean about the the double
lives you know you're going home at
night but this is what Gaston said and I
say the same thing I know I'm an FBI
agent I'm not a bank robber
so I'm coaching baseball at night and
I'm robbing banks during the day but I'm
not robbing I'm helping the SWAT team
arrest them you know so again so the
general public isn't harmed how often
did you go from a crazy thing you just
did helping robbers rob a bank or you
know FBI agent catch the robbers to
actually go into the game how often was
your life from here's the FBI agent
undercover hey baby how do you don't let
me put you to sleep how I did that
happen I tried to as I got later in my
career when I started to understand
undercover work I built my undercover
life around my family life in the sense
that I would go to my kids games
sometimes I would bring bad guys to the
games come on
though it just it's there's a way to do
it I don't want to like it
- into the weeds but there's a way to do
it but my wife pointed out to me much
later you're missing your children
growing up so that's when I took control
of my schedule and I would work nights
weekends but I'd work around things were
important in my family so everything I
could go to my family events you know I
would try to do that there sometimes you
just can't as we all know but first
responders law enforcement you don't get
to pick your hours but because of the
the specialty area I was in I really did
get to pick my own if I had to meet a
bad guy meet him at midnight rather than
six o'clock when the game was so I tried
to make up for lost time by doing it so
so when you work with three different
families you said the Russian mob and
then it was a three La Cosa Nostra
families and then you're talking about
the Sinaloa cartel without Chapel were
you the kid were you do in the case of
were you the actual undercover agent on
these three families the three families
I was the undercover agent all three of
them all three what was the biggest
difference between the way the three
families ran all right so my first one
was 98 99 that was against Merlino it's
called the Merlino Luisi there was a
there was a faction in Boston dealing
with a faction in Philadelphia Joey
Merlino was a very well-known mafia boss
I couldn't meet directly with Merlino
because I had been in Philadelphia and
helped arrest him on a previous case so
he would recognize me or we suspect that
he would recognize me so I had to dance
around that I would deal with the guys
in Boston who were getting the their
marching orders from Philadelphia that
case took about six months and that was
in time-intensive you had to be there at
their beck and call
fast forward - mm I do if case down
against the patriarch of family in Rhode
Island a guy named Maddy googly immedi
he was a captain coming out of prison
and we had information he was going to
be the boss so I went down just not the
case in Rhode Island in 2000 thinking it
would take you know a year or two and
that ended up being five years straight
so there's a six-month in the five years
and then
cheese man the last one was about a year
or less so till in total it's about six
seven years pretty much full time with
with them culturally it's kind of like
being on three different sports teams
what's the biggest difference between
these three different organizations the
patriarchal family was very sharp they
were they were looking for law
enforcement
they were the brightest group we went
against they were very hard to
infiltrate it took me over two years
just to meet the main guy that was a
slow methodical approach that we had to
take and that's going down there every
day for two years not even meeting a guy
I finally met him and then we we had
ants to investigate further after I
developed a relationship with him the
other two groups truthfully weren't that
intelligent because they led an unknown
me into their inner circle DiNunzio the
last case he met with me a complete
stranger it's unheard of he shouldn't
have done it but women at the FBI we
don't you know we don't mind we'll take
advantage of course yeah and the same
thing with the with the Luisi family and
the Merlino family i was introduced by
ron preventing the informant I spoke so
he had he had cachet with them so by him
voting for me I was able to work my way
into the top level right away and we did
a we did a drug case in Philadelphia
case we did a drug case in a Rhode
Island case and then the bad dirt was
the final one the yeah who was the
toughest one between the three that it
was a Maddy googly many the patriarch er
the by far the road ah yeah told me one
day he told me one day Mike I'm to you
telling me more things that I need to
know I hope you're not telling me for
the wrong reasons he basically told me
he thought I was an FBI agent it was too
late it was done he told you this
yeah what was your reaction when he said
this to you I expected it to come and I
just played it off you got to remember
these guys grew up around each other
they go to grammar school together their
families know their family who's the new
kid on the block all the time so when
things start going south they're not
going to look at the guy they grew up
with they're gonna look at the guy who
last came into the game
why do they ever even trust a new guy
because they're all greedy everyone
every one of those cases were made
because they were greeted to make money
I presented opportunities in each of
those cases to make money for the mob
and they'll do it
the mob tells you they don't deal in
drugs that's a complete myth they all
deal in drugs because it's worth it it's
a moneymaker all right so if you can
make them money they'll interact with
you they'll be suspicious of you but
that's their Achilles heel
were you ever in a moment where you kind
of like I could get killed were you ever
in bad situation with those three
families where was the one story that we
tell that in the first case the
Philadelphia Boston case we were about
six months into it I had already bought
drugs from them we have we were buying
more drugs and the FBI received
information that they had learned my
true identity I wouldn't tell me how
they learned that which was the right
play myself in the case agent argued
that we could go back but we would only
meet them out in the street where I
could be watched and we they reluctantly
agreed to let us do that and of course
not the first time but the second time I
went back they motioned me into the
coffee shop the social club with a hung
out and I tried to get them to come out
and you know we're going to standoff and
finally I said you know I got a I got to
go inside and you learn as an undercover
you have to you can't shoot your way out
of situations you got to talk and think
your way out of situations so I went
into the club very reluctantly I had
real bad feelings I knew the two guys
behind me were armed there were two guys
two goons behind me and I went in where
I had been in this place many of times
but this day the Bobby Luisi the head
guy said Mike we we got to go down in
the basement okay and you probably don't
want to go down in the basement of a
social club so I didn't have a choice
I'm not gonna fight my way out of it so
I had to think my way out of it I went
down in the basement and this is a funny
story that very few people believe but
those are the days of jukeboxes and as I
went downstairs Frank Sinatra's my way
was playing on the jukebox and that was
the only song I have heard my father
sing in my life and he had been dead for
25 years but it was almost like he was
saying you're gonna get out of this and
it kind of relaxed me and then when they
got me downstairs they started to talk
about more cocaine so it finally dawned
on me they're not gonna kill me and I
collected more evidence and I got out of
there safely that day they asked them
after they arrested them they said what
happened that day when you brought him
in the basement and they said we thought
the FBI was following him as a bad guy
and we brought him down in the basement
to protect him but I wish they had told
me that that day
wow they thought the FBI was following
you yes and they brought you down to
protect you so how are you staying calm
in that moment how are you and I know
you're telling the story about your
father would ya my way in 25 years now
but what is and I'm sure this is not the
only situation but what are you doing to
just kind of stay calm
number one you don't you don't try to
put yourself in that situation okay you
should pick up dangerous signals before
it's too late
so that's what you have to get better at
when you do this now I knew that day
when I was outside that day and they
started to try to get me inside I should
have just left but I was still
relatively young undercover at that
point and you got to remember FBI agents
for the most part a type-a personalities
we can get the job done but the older I
got the smarter I got and ten years
later I never would I would have walked
away that day I never would have went in
that building you would have never gone
in never why not and that's what I
trained younger undercut why not do why
wouldn't you have gone so I didn't get
killed or hurt okay
no case is worth an agent getting killed
or hurt for if you asked experience if
you ask the Joe Pistone that day if I
should have gone that building I
guarantee you his answer is no same okay
but you know once you're in something
you have to think and talk your way
through it and so what I do in training
is I tell agents now rather than wait
for the day somebody sticks a gun to
your head start thinking about it now
what are you going to do
all right it's just it's just it's life
preservation you have to think these
things true I grew up I grew up in a
blue-collar environment I grew up with
some people who ended up in jail so I
wasn't uneasy in those circumstances I I
had dealt with guys like them and
there's certain guys you got to push at
and other guys you got to give them some
space and you just have to learn that
there's no book that you can write no
that's what I'm saying so school in
truth there's not really any kind of a
training that they put you through his
training now there was none when I start
okay got it
yes it was just you have to get lucky
picking a person to do the job and not
you the person hiring you back when I
first started if you're a cop or you
were in the military the FBI thought you
could work undercover don't ask me why
because those are two of the most
regimented professions in the world but
they so I got picked to work undercover
because I had been a cop got it what's
the most vicious thing you saw happen
right in front of you you're sitting
here like oh my god I can't believe that
just happened he had to stay calm the
most vicious thing happened me did not
happen to me in undercover it happened
during the Boston Marathon bombings
which I was also involved in just as a
agent and I saw a lot of the destruction
and carnage from that event which was
horrific you were the one to happen yes
I mean I was in the city of Boston and
responded to the event kind of God but
anything with the undercover with mobs
did you see anything vicious in front
and front me right in front of you I
never saw anybody killed obviously I
never saw anybody shot anything like
that because you really have to people
think you go undercover and you just
decide ten minutes before you do
something we put weeks and weeks and
months into preparation so we don't put
ourselves in a bad spot so when I went
to do something with the mob and this
goes for all undercover agents or
different cases you set yourself up for
the most success in the least amount of
risk so if you know there's a beef going
on between two families you don't want
to be hanging out with them be somewhere
else so I would set up my persona that I
couldn't be around a hundred percent of
the time I was making money doing
something else maybe somewhere else you
can't if you stick around with them full
time you're going to come into these
situations during that first case I
talked to you about two of the subject
got into a road rage incident and killed
the guy now if I was driving around in
the car with them I would have been at
that scene but that's the type of thing
there was no reason if you're not there
for a purpose to collect your evidence
don't hang around with these guys
because trouble is gonna happen it's
just inevitable so how long was a hell
long did you work on the sinaloa case
did you say six months as well was that
oh that was three years that was three
years did you ever get close to El Chapo
like were you ever near him or no I
communicated with him through actually
we would communicate he was the world's
most-wanted fugitive he was hiding in
the mountains of Mexico at that time so
we knew we couldn't go into Mexico we
also know he wasn't coming out obviously
so we had to deal with his what I called
his executive Boyd his attorneys as
financial people and we dealt with we
dealt with one of his first cousins a
guy named Manuel and Manuel became the
telephone I was supposed to be the the
El Jefe the big shot in Sicily and I was
communicating with chapo through Manuel
his first cousin who would return come
get the message return to Mexico go up
in the mountains and then we started
exchanging written messages on pesos so
that's the that was my communication
method but we knew we were we were not
going to have a face-to-face with chapo
we invited him to come see us in Italy
and he thought about coming we were that
we called it the escape hatch plan if he
wanted to flee Mexico and live in Europe
he was communicating with us to do that
but inevitably he didn't who was us like
who did he think you were he thought
that was your mom God ah Sicilian crime
family he thought you were Sicilian we
left the United States completely out of
it if he know that we were doing
anything in the United States he
wouldn't have had anything to do with us
we we presented ourselves as we were
looking for a cocaine market in Europe
and he was looking for that opportunity
at the same time so it maybe thought he
was dealing with the Sicilian mob got it
and did you do you speak the language or
no these know I have trouble with
English
so how are you convincing these guys but
this is it yeah that's a good point what
happened was in that case we selected a
Sicilian speaking undercover agent a
very skilled agent out of Newark
division who was going to be the the
boss two weeks three weeks before the
case he got a private sector opportunity
he was close to reap time and he had to
take the job he apologized profusely but
he had to take the job so we were stuck
without anybody and at that point that's
at the towards the end of my career I
was confident even though I didn't speak
Italian I didn't speak Spanish I was
confident we could make a case if we did
it right and that's what I mean about
learning from doing it over and over
again you understand what they're
looking for so I told them very early on
in English that I didn't want to speak
to them in Italian because the Italian
police were listening to our phones and
that would cause them a problem so they
appreciated that I would only speak to
them in English and directly not on the
phone all right but I told him from the
beginning I only spoke English because I
didn't want them to bring an Italian
speaker to the meetings and I had
spanish-speaking agents with me and the
majority of the conversations took place
in Spanish the majority conversation
took place in Spanish so what did the
lawyer chapels lawyer say to you guys he
said what you guys are more disciplined
than us yes we were in the middle of
negotiating a huge cocaine deal and we
had a facility that we used in Florida
that was part of our stick and we had a
we had a meeting one night we're in the
middle of the cocaine negotiations he
asked to speak privately to me and
another undercover agent and we went
outside and he asked us would we be
willing to launder money for the Sinaloa
cartel now we were in the middle of a
cocaine deal money laundering goes hand
in hand with that and we said you know
let's get this cocaine thing wrapped up
and then we'll think about how much
money he said just a little bit of money
I said how much he said five hundred
million to start that's that what they
considered a little the money yeah so we
turned him down
and that's when he said chapo told me to
tell you that you're the mole you're the
only organization we have dealt with at
a more discipline than we are so again
we
acting like law enforcement we turned
down five hundred million dollars worth
of laundered money what why did you turn
it down because it would have
interrupted the drug case that there
were too many there were too many
logistical challenges to doing that it's
something we pursued later in a
different way but again going back to
the state inspector driving in that
truck and doing all it who turns down
five hundred million cops never so we
you know we had to convince them every
day this was three years of
investigation every day we had to be on
our toes with them until the end when we
we actually did get the shipment we ask
you a complete curveball question here
how how much similarity does the FBI as
an organization have to the mob you're
trying to set me up so I'll be careful
here the the old moat what I call the
old mob the real true Italian LCN mob
where there was structure and
hierarchies it's a chain of command just
like the FBI or the US military there is
a chain of command all right and you
have to understand your position and
what you have to do now I'm not making
no Association at the FBI is like the
mob other than and structure chain of
command reporting up the chain so that
would be the only similarity between the
two that I would say is prevalent in
comparing the two I had a John a
light-year he was a former Albanian
associate of the Gotti family and he
said what made the mob work is fear and
structure because there was the fear if
you cross the line here you don't do it
the highest level of fears what you know
you're gonna get killed and in structure
with the whole levels and hierarchy and
you know rituals and all that other
stuff was that pretty normal with all
the three families that you were working
as yes very no you you knew who reported
to who and that was the key and that's
just like in the FBI you're not gonna
get killed in the FBI if you don't do
your job but you're gonna you're going
to lose your position something's gonna
happen this consequences to your actions
and that's why the mob was easier to
investigate because you couldn't
somebody couldn't go wild off the
reservation
if they decided they were going to do
something serious they had to go up
three four levels to get the okay and
that's what we apprentice that was it
the Google iam Eddie's the the really
knows the nunzio's we want to get into
that decision-making executive level of
the crime families because we're dealing
with the people who were deciding at the
end what's going to be done was there
anything you saw that was honorable that
they did the only thing I tell people I
felt bad about one thing and all the
time I did that in the in the Providence
case the Patriarca family case Maddy
Gogi and many's dad died during the
investigation his father was a mobster
and Maddy took over for his dad but his
father elderly and he passed away and I
went to the services as I was expected
to do and at the service I was told that
I needed to go into the family crypt
where they were burying their father and
I was brought into the family burial
site would would basically immediate
family and I had a tape recorder running
and I didn't really feel very good that
day that was not a day to collect
evidence that was a family that was
legitimately grieving so I did feel you
know I did feel some remorse for doing I
didn't have a choice obvious I can't
stop and take the recorder off were you
upset with yourself a you felt remorse
or no no because I think that's human
nature when somebody's family member
dies I'd like to think you know yeah are
they mobsters yes but they also have
family and I understood family men but
again they choose their path and you
know we react accordingly if somebody's
not in the business we're not going to
go out and find them there's a reason
somebody's name comes to the attention
of the FBI and it's usually because
they're up to no good do you trust the
FBI no after seven years you can't have
a falling out with them and you had a
chip on your shoulder while you did
50-plus cases but do you trust begin let
me preface this I know you respect law
enforcement cops all of that but do you
trust the FBI organization what they
stand for yes you do
yes overall well the incident that's a
safe answer though against the
institution the history yeah
I respect tremendously I've had
differences with individuals within the
FBI I've had individuals within the FBI
that I think should not have been in the
positions that they were but overall
99.5% of all FBI personnel are honorable
and do the right thing do you think most
directors that are honorable and do the
right things or would you say some of
them are not that's so far out of my
stratosphere there's some directors that
I liked there's some directors I didn't
care for because of just policy and
internal decisions they made the FBI
should be under the radar you should not
be hearing seeing the FBI in the in the
Daily News the reason why I asked that
is because you know for me you know
unions get started for good reasons the
the basic foundation of a union is what
hey you're not taking care of employees
much you pay them a little bit more guys
it's gonna strike two days okay we'll
take them up we'll pay you more we want
some benefits these people are hurting
me they want to go to the doctor okay
we'll take care of right and a union
becomes what a political machine is what
it becomes especially today right okay
did FBI get started for the right
reasons back in the days with Hoover
sure it was good reasons we needed
something because it was things going on
Espeon whatever you want to call it say
the foundation was true do you think
it's a little too big and intrusive and
trying to get into you everyone your
business today word the American citizen
is sitting there saying I don't know if
I trust the FBI like I did at one point
maybe I'd like to think that the
majority of the American population
trust the FBI they should as I said
99.5% of FBI personnel are doing the
right thing that's all I can tell you
now the the recent events over the last
couple of years it's embarrassing to the
FBI we shouldn't be in the news we
shouldn't be involved in any political
shenanigans either side I'm not telling
you you
one side of the other anything like that
but the FBI is taking a huge beating in
the last few years which upsets me
obviously I love the FBI we love it -
the day I die all right but I'm trying
to tell people because I get asked this
question a million times now in 30 years
I never got asked in the last two years
I get asked a hundred - literally you're
saying this in 30 years you never got
asked you've never that never this has
only been literally almost since I
retired
- you know three-year - okay so if
people haven't asked because they didn't
know you were an FBI agent no people
know people that knew I was an FBI agent
he's never asked this question though do
you think partly you know how you talk
to some folks and you read history of
the mob and and for the most part it was
very low-key you didn't go around
flashing what you did you didn't dress
up in fur coats and all these stories
very very consistent with most mobs
anybody that gets a little too flashy
and they say god he got a little too
flashy you know the Teflon Don he would
get out and walk run and he's nice 2000
$3000 Briony suits and it got a little
bit tension to it right do you think
Comey did a little bit a little bit of
that by getting a little too much
attention to the FBI that it shouldn't
have gotten
I'll never compare Jim Coleman or John
Gotti I don't think that's fair to do
while he was in on making that
comparison because you were in both
worlds race don't and it can end and my
answer would be no there's no comparison
between it - I don't agree with
everything director Comey did or has
done and especially post his FBI
serviced yeah when he was a director he
had the support of the rank and file and
it was only after the what I call
shenanigans whatever you want to
describe that when he became more
involved in the public discussion I just
don't think that's right you know people
use the argument against me while you
write in a book well I didn't open my
mouth for 30 years everything that's in
that book you can go into a courthouse
and find I never revealed one thing
that's not public record the FBI should
not be engaged or involved in day-to-day
activities especially in this political
world so there's a good point so
everything you are writing about it's
public so there are something
that happened that you will never tell
us about there's a lot of things you'll
never hear from me no that's what I'm
saying yes I'll take FBI secrets to my
grave that's what I respect then I'm
saying but you're saying that is not
happening a lot of that is not happening
today no I'm not sir I can't speak for
anyone other than myself you're seeing
happening on TV though when you watch
the media and the news and maybe we have
more information from the FBI that we
should is that kind of well I I would
use the I would use if you've noticed
the new FBI director director ray who I
don't know and I never served under we
haven't heard much from him and that's a
good thing that's the way the FBI should
operate so when you hear everybody wants
to know about Comey McCabe and that
crowd that's so far into a street agent
like myself their head of a corporation
we don't have we don't just walk down
the hall and pop by head in their office
it's two different worlds
that's executive management that's the
leadership of the FBI but 95% of the FBI
is in out in the streets of the country
how do you view them how do they view
you like is is it similar to military
infantry your infantry and then there's
the guys that the officers that are you
know doing what they're doing is that
kind of a you guys are you Joe yes
they're there they're at the highest
levels of the FBI making decisions that
affect the entire FBI in the country and
we're doing our investigations in the
cities that we work so I was I was more
interested in helping defeat crime in
Boston than anything coming out of
Washington DC it's and are a lot of FBI
agents motivated to go out there and
become directors one day or no no
Undercovers are just kind of like this
is what I enjoy doing leave me alone
this that's how most Street eight now we
call them Street agents who's just doing
the investigations people in management
want to go up the chain but they're not
going to get to the director be the only
director that's ever been an FBI agent
was Louis Freeh Louis Freeh was by far
the best FBI director I ever served
under Wow do you think it helped the
fact that he was under thousand percent
he know he worked not only did he work
undercover he was a case agent he was a
Street agent he understood our job other
directors come from different they come
from legal legal firms they didn't have
agents perspective now they're very
obviously they're very honorable and
intelligent people but they haven't been
in a squat area and worked a case what
you what see the director Louis Freeh
was a director in the early 80s he was a
director under President Clinton I think
we I think he was like 83 to 83 would be
Reagan great that's a car team 81-82
yeah no I don't know he was under Louis
Freeh was when President Clinton was an
often 92 92 got it so interesting yeah
92 to 2000 some somewhere on that long
at that time you know just a random
question since was still on this topic
what do you think should be the
government's involvement with people and
here's what I mean by you know we're
going in a direction right now where
it's kind of like you know what what is
the cutoff for how much privacy we
should have and what is the cutoff for
how much protection we should have US
citizens where the government knows best
for us I asked this question because you
know just recently I mean you read about
this stuff with this whole thing on
Apple versus FBI hey give us the phone
information on this terrorist and you
know no I don't want to do it because
I'm kind of breaking my privacy but you
should give it because we can catch the
bad guy and you kind of put the CEO of
the company in a rough position and you
know even the other one with the FBI and
I iced you know driver's license photos
are now gold mine for them because
Washington Post did an article talking
about that agents are scanning millions
of Americans faces without their
knowledge or consent and in represent
Jim Jordan says this should not be
happening without anybody's consent so
what is the fine line between hey give
me some privacy versus we know what's
best to protect the nation right I'll
answer that as first a private citizen
and then as an FBI FBI appreciate as a
private citizen I'd always be I'd always
be concerned about any intrusion into
the privacy of American citizens but
from a law enforcement standpoint when
we go to Apple when now I'm speaking as
an F but retired agent when we go to
Apple when we go to try to do things if
it is in the deterrence of crime and
especially in national security or
terrorism related matter
I'll leave it up to the constitutional
scholars how far the the line should be
moved but if you don't have access that
technology is outpacing law so things
that are happening with with technology
now the legal system is racing to catch
up with and just because something that
was put into law in 1950 may not be
applicable today we're here on this the
sacred day of 9/11 that's when we're
speaking to you today okay if everybody
goes back to 9/11 and how they felt that
day I think you'd have a lot more people
remembering what it's like to be under
terrorist attack so we have to adjust to
the time and the technology that we're
currently because the the FBI regardless
of what people may think the FBI is not
asking Apple to open up something just a
peek into some of these book there's a
there's a law enforcement reason that's
why we get court orders or subpoenas or
warrants there has to it's done in a
proper manner but we have to we don't
want these modern technologies defeating
us as a nation but doesn't this start
that way doesn't it start with in an
honorable mode we would be here for
weeks if we were going back and forth on
this issue well you know what I'm
talking what I say sir so so you know
when I say start starts like that again
for me I was in the US Army and I did it
proudly when the best decisions I ever
made hunter first airborne I would have
done it ten out of ten times and when I
got out I went to the FBI building in LA
and I want her to be one and I went out
there filled out all the information I'm
interested it was a freeze I wanted to
be a firefighter and I wanted to be FBI
wanted it too there was a freeze on Fire
Department on hiring firefighters for
five years I was gonna go to El Camino
College because that's where they gave
you all the basic requirements schooling
to take to go be a firefighter I think
some of it have to do CPR and some of
these other things have to take and I
want to be an agent so I wanted to go
the route you went
we essentially eventually things change
I want to the financial services side
what I'm asking this is as an immigrant
that escaped in Iran to come here
because sometimes in Iran they were
worried
but you know the the government wanting
a little bit too much control over the
people you know you you keep that as a
paranoia of all these institutions are
getting a little too big and too
powerful you know I can if you look at
the world history I can understand that
I think you have to concentrate on US
history and the checks and balances that
we have in place and we continue to have
in place if you've noticed a lot of the
provisions that were put in place after
9/11 have have gone out of they've been
discontinued so there is a and again I'm
not trying to say that the FBI does
everything perfect we don't we're human
beings but this this idea that the
government is doing something for the
various reasons I can't support I've
never seen it in 30-plus years what when
you were talking about you know
technology is outpacing the law mm-hmm
what do you think's a solution for that
I think the law has to catch up quickly
because it's what we do that well again
I leave this to people who are much more
in tune with what has to be done but
some of the wiretap the the electronic
surveillance laws that we operate
haven't been changed for 40 50 years the
Internet has completely changed the
world including the FBI you have to
address these emerging technical trends
so legally this is some type of balance
okay if you tell me that Apple has the
computer of somebody who's threatened to
blow up Grand Central Station the FBI
should get in there somehow that that's
a national emergency
should-should absolutely got it so it's
the preservation of human life that's
you know it's just you're making a very
good case I'm only pushing on that my
appreciation I appreciate your only
reason I'm saying this is because you
are right we're living in a different
time where you know some of the people
that the most dangerous criminals today
is a 15 year old hacker that knows how
to get into systems so it's not the same
kind of method of committing crime as it
was maybe when you were coming up as an
under the patient would have to be
completely different FBI so I'm
appreciating your perspective I would
never have been hired in today's FBI I
tell you that because I don't have the
background or the skill set yeah I took
to the threats that we're facing now
it's the threats now versus 30 years ago
a completely different what are these a
more mainly cyber cyber cyber espionage
economic theft it's just it's it's a
global world so you as a citizen not as
a civilian not as an agent from the
perspective of a citizen we the people
would you be comfortable on certain
cases the government having access to
certain phone files with companies or
Facebook or Google or Apple or some of
those to help us prevent a major
disaster from taking place I would have
to have a specific example I don't want
to talk in generalities but if something
involves the preservation of life then
there should be law enforcement
exceptions to obtain that information
it's the same thing there's a there's a
statute that we have used we actually
used it in the Boston Marathon bombings
quarrels versus New York if you look up
quarrels versus New York a gentleman
named Quarles committed a crime and ran
into a grocery store and threw the gun
away if I remember correctly he
discarded a weapon and the police chased
them and they asked him where the weapon
was before they provided him as Miranda
warnings and that case was upheld
through our Supreme Court because the
potential harm to the general public
outweighed providing him as Miranda
warning so there's a loaded gun
somewhere in the store that some kid can
pick up etc that's what I'm saying on
this technology trend we have to be able
to get information when there's a clear
definition that harm is coming it's just
of such a fine line you know it's such a
fine line I'll leave that I'll leave
that to others sure yeah but you're
asking from alarm for and as a as a
private citizen I don't even like when
Google brings me to a location I don't
like that okay I don't like a phone it's
being able to say where I am but I
understand it but this is where that
balance has to come in and in my humble
opinion
yeah I'm just curious to know I had what
do the people have enough saying this to
you know where they feel the level of
comfort for it to happen and at what
point do the people not have access to
all the informations to allow the FBI
who is not like a Comey that's a public
figure maybe a guy that's more low-key
to make the decisions no one to have
access to information that we don't know
about that
they never know anything but I think I
think that's the responsibility of our
elected representatives there's a ones
who lately vote for it and we vote for
to see who we feel is gonna do the best
job in these areas else the American
system right and that's why I'm in
America believe me that's why I'm in
America and for me I am most confident
with this system than a lot of other
systems out there okay so for me I don't
agree with this whole notion of tea
pushing for a perfect system because I
don't think utopia exists I don't think
there's anywhere where unicorns fly and
if there is it's only in the movies and
cartoons in real life things get pretty
ugly at times and some of the decisions
we are better off not knowing everything
about I mean don't get me wrong I'm not
talking about free press let's take it
out that's not what I'm talking about
but some stuff sometimes it's a little
too much information so how was it when
Sylvester Stone was a pro approached
about the story did you kind of go out
that somebody pitch it for you that
somebody reach out you how did that take
place what happened on that and the book
the book had not even been released and
without my knowledge or without my
advanced knowledge a proposal was sent
to his company and from what I
understand he jumped on it right away he
enjoyed the story I later met with him
to discuss it we reached an agreement
and we are moving forward on that
project moving forward on that project
because have you been with the
face-to-face have you guys you have and
when when should we expect this movie to
come out I have no idea that you don't
know that's them that's it again this is
just something that's why you you
mentioned it earlier and I appreciate
the opportunity I'm appearing on your
show because of this book but what's
important to me is the
thirty years I did in the FBI and what
is Oh whatever happens post FBI happens
it's not really an overriding issue for
me I think I did what I was asked to do
for a long time I did it as well as I
could and that's what's important to me
this post FBI stuff what happens happens
and I'll just enjoy the ride yeah and I
heard read somewhere that you are now a
consultant to Hollywood when they make
movies was it equalizer day you worked
on equalizer two equalizer two Antoine
Fuqua directed Denzel Washington Pedro
Pascal like I tried my hand at that yet
and you're coaching Denzel on what to do
in certain parts to get him to
understand the role you you just bring a
law-enforcement side to the to the when
they want to when they'll show you
something is this realistic well no
because a B and C so when somebody asks
you a question you're a job but like
Pedro Pascal one of the we had to teach
him how to properly shoot a assault
weapon and the first time he grabbed it
it was embarrassing which he admitted
but you know he got pretty good at it by
the end how was a Denzel working with
the Denzel Washington
I had limited contact with him he's
obviously he's the star of the show so
he didn't need a lot of law enforcement
the one scene that I did help them with
was there was a scene in a you know a
dining room where some violence occurred
and he's trying to figure it out so I
had to show them different things that
you look for in a homicide things like
that it was just it was just trying
something new well you know once again
for anybody to give 35 years of their
life to protect and serve citizens
that's that's an honorable thing to do
that's a long time of your life
especially I think you had three kids
and missing a lot of moments and putting
yourself on the line with two and a half
years and writing this book for your
wife and three kids and her doing what
she did for you lots of respect for you
doing that because it's not a job many
people would like to have I know you
didn't you said you recommend other
people doing it because you had a great
time doing it but it takes a certain
level of willingness to serve for a
bigger purpose to give 35 years of your
life to country and you did that I
respect you for doing that and so here's
what I would say if you want to go out
and read the book is Sylvester
Stallone's not going to go out and pick
up a script that's yeah you know any
book I'm gonna go out to make a movie
about it there's a reason for it and
there's a lot of stories here that we
didn't get into if you want to find out
more about the book we're gonna put the
link below to go purchase the book
called ghost and would that being said
again thank you for your service and
appreciate you flying out here to Dallas
thank you very much thank you for having
me anytime